---
title: Assignment 6
layout: doc
---

# A6

## Tasks Lists

| **Task Title**                              | **Instruction**                                                                                                                       | **Rationale**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Registration and Login                      | Create a new user account on StudyCalm and log in.                                                                                    | Testing user registration and authentication is starting off on the right track, as successful onboarding will make the rest of the process possible.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Community Onboarding                        | Find a community to post in by browsing the communities and joining one. Then create your own community.                              | This task covers the grouping concept in my app, as each community is a wrapper of its own posts and comments, and for the user to be able to post and comment, they have to belong to a community. They have a variety of groups to choose from, and if they have an interest not included in the groups, then they can create their own and become a group founder.  |
| Posting and Commenting                      | Access the community you want to post in, and make one post in that community, and then reply to another post in that community.      | This is essential as it ensures that users can engage with the community back and forth, as the app is about building community more than anything else.                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Share Goals with Match                      | Access the matching portal, wait for a match, and when you are matched, fill out your goals.                                          | This is also important as it covers the matching concept in my app, which differs from communities in being randomly assigned from the matching pool as a chance to make a new connection and to hold each other accountable for your goals in this mental-health-oriented app. It verifies that an important social concept is working and effective and easy to use. |
| Create and Join Events                      | Go to the community of your choice, enter the events board, and create an event with a time and location.                             | The app prioritizes in-person offline interactions and every community has an events board. This makes sure another important social aspect of the app works as desired.                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Join an Event and Vote on Time and Location | Go to another group and join an existing event. Vote on the same time, but suggest another location and see if the consensus changes. | This feature is essential to my events board and testing it helps ensure that interested parties can reach a consensus on when and where to meet by the democracy of voting. Without it, there are no in-person mental-health-promoting offline meetups.                                                                                                                |

## User Testing Reports

### User I - Anonymous

So the first test subject was a friend who is not in Course 6, which provides perspective as the app is intended to be used by the general population. Since the register and logins were given, he had no problem with creating an account and logging in, also deleting his user at the end. Though the login stuff hidden in the settings navbar causes maybe 1% discomfort as most apps usually just have the user be an icon in the nav bar rather than logging out being hidden in settings. When I say 1% discomfort I mean slight lag in finding where it is. Moving on to task 2, once logged in he easily found the communities sidebar, which has a different color, and headed to browsing and creating. I was worried that “browse” and “create” would not be visible enough since they were hyperlinks – I would have made them into buttons but the paradigm of this class is that links and buttons have to be distinct – but the sidebar coloring called attention to it and he also did it well. He reacted well to “snazzy description” in the community creation prompt shadow text, which I modeled off “An interesting title” shadow text in the Reddit app. Then moving on, he created the community and wrote some posts and comments with zero hassle, as it resembles the Reddit UI. While this is not part of the tasks, he noticed the search box for searching by user. Since I did not iterate on that except for making it work in the individual communities, there was a bit of a tension when he realized that he had to type in the exact username case-sensitive and with spaces for it to work. Searching for the first word in a two-word username would not work. Otherwise, continuing to goals, he was in the pool, so to get him a match, I made another account to put into the pool. There he got matched and was able to add his goals, though given this dynamic between computers and not within, there is no way to emit that change, so he has to reload to see that he got matched, a minor tension. He added goals seamlessly at my instruction. Lastly, going to the events board, I noticed he had a bit of trouble finding the link, as it was not too styled, even though I put it just below the title. Without telling him where it was, it took him like 5 seconds to find it. However, from there he had no issues in creating and joining events, as well as voting on locations. We did find a bug on voting times – while reverting changes after failing to implement image posting, I somehow broke the rendering of time votes, so it’s stuck at 0 no matter what. Regardless, the votes do get tallied in the backend. Overall, the core functionality worked fine, and he had good reactions to the interface and flows, only problems were the locations and prominence of some links and the time voting frontend bug.

### User 2 - Luis

The second test subject, a friend Luis who is not in 6.104, was in course 6 and went through the tasks faster, and actually had enough time to try to jailbreak my site in a sense. Nevertheless, there are plenty of insights from him as well. He had no trouble with registering and logging in, though a funny detail is that his browser notified him that his password 12345 was found in a data breach. He created communities and posted and commented, creating a The Office Fan Club. I told him the tasks one by one so when he created an event and found that he could vote on events, he found that intriguing. I had a mechanic to make things simpler where you can only vote for one time and location at a time, making tallying easier, but he instead found it counterintuitive, telling me that he would like to vote for more than one time and location. Indeed, that makes more sense in finding consensus among people as we can then find an intersection rather than an all-or-nothing choice for each date and location. I could not patch the time bug since I’m locked from editing the repo for grading, so he commented on it as well. He did like the responsive voting mechanisms and had fun trying to figure out the tiebreaker when two locations would have the same number of votes – it seems like the first person to chronologically vote wins. Logging out was a slight tension, because as previously stated, it’s hidden in settings rather than being in the navbar. The funnest part was, after completing the tasks successfully, he tried to break my site, the first thing he did was go into inspect element and remove the “required” phrase from the text fields to see if they would still be accepted. This way, communities and accounts were created with blank names, which was not supposed to happen. Indeed, I was relying on frontend validation rather than backend validation. Then you can’t post or comment on the blank communities, as the blank name just completely confuses the backend. Even though this is an atypical console manipulation use case, it shows that with scale, my backend is vulnerable to damaging attacks. Similarly, a community name with punctuation, like a single lone dot as the name (you might have seen it during A5 grading), you couldn’t post or comment on it either. And lastly, after finishing the matching task, he deleted himself to see what would happen, opening a can of worms of unaccounted edge cases. If a user deletes themselves while matched, the other user is trapped, since the user is not found, but their matching status is matched, so they can’t do anything. That is something I would have to fix if this product would ever be launched. I had to manually free one of his test accounts in the DB. Regardless of the creeping issues, he really liked the site, and said it works well and that he was just jailbreaking it for fun.

## Areas for Improvement

- More Intuitive Time Voting – Conceptual – Major – When starting out, I knew I couldn’t match the functionality of When2Meet in just one event box inside a social media app. So I just made a simple single choice voting system to hopefully get a majority to agree for the use case. But Luis made me realize that I can. When2Meet has each person submit multiple overlapping time preferences that intersect to query the most ideal time. It would not be hard to turn user votes into a list and then be able to vote and unvote on all times, ultimately representing the most preferred intersecting times and locations.

- Login/Logout/Profile Placement – Physical – Moderate – To expand on the minor tension I mentioned in the first study, I can focus on bringing the login and logout to a more consistent place in the UI. Almost all webpages with authentication have an icon or dropdown with your profile picture or username that you simply click to log out or view user preferences. It’s become a universal design standard at this point in the Internet. Since I was focusing on implementing the other concepts and components, this went to the back burner, but the most obvious area of improvement here is creating that menu for UI consistency, as mentioned in the Lecture 11 slides, consistency across domain.

- Further Backend Validation – Physical – Major – With common use cases, frontend validation is enough. But with adverse agents, backend validation becomes the most important thing in the world, as Luis’ jailbreaking outside of the scope of the tasks demonstrated. It won’t stop adverse agents completely either, but providing bad inputs to the API will wreak havoc on the website. I have to throw more errors when things are empty and/or malformed. There are errors already, and plenty of assertions that the post exists and the user exists and is logged in and so on, but the empty fields, I had major tunnel vision with that. So that would be a priority to fix.

- Link Styling – Linguistic – Minor – Both my participants had a little trouble finding the events board even though it was right below the big title, like a subtitle in a sense. Even just one dark background around it or a bigger size would help find it easier, as long as I don’t violate the conventions around buttons as distinct from hyperlinks. This is the most direct UI issue that I have found through user testing, I could not have found it otherwise, because when I look at the website myself, everything is easy to find because I developed it. There always has to be a second (and third) opinion. Would be a quick patch.

- Fixing Deleted User Bugs - Physical - Major - Deleting a user preserves the posts and comments, but as I saw with Luis, it does not bode well for my matching feature. As is the nature of edge cases, it never once occurred to me what would happen to a match if a user was deleted -- I only focused on the functionality of entering the matching pool, staying out of it, and terminating a match once matched. Deleting the user blocks your match from the whole feature unless I manually remove the match in the DB. That is the first thing I have to fix before anything else, as the edge case is large enough to warrant attention.
